Ladies and gentlemen, our friends of Tennessee, this is the most beautiful time in Washington
where the flowers blooming and the cherry blossoms in full bloom, and in all the years I've
been here, I don't think the cherry blossoms have ever been more beautiful than they are at the present time.
And this is very festive occasion in Washington and the big occasion, the big festive occasion
of the year is the Cherry Blossom Festival. And the state societies of each of the states
pick a cherry blossom princess. The Tennessee State Society has chosen this year a very lovely,
beautiful girl who hails from Huntsville, Tennessee. And I'm very happy to present and introduce
to all of you Miss Beverly Baker, the Tennessee princes. Good to have you here, Beverly.
Tell us about the Cherry Blossom Festival. Have you been having a good time? Have you?
The Cherry Blossom Festival has really been a wonderful time for the girls. It's been a world.
We started now at the clock in the morning and go constantly until our hours and night.
And if I may admit my feet are getting a little tired.
Beverly, you sure do look rested and I'm sure that none of the princesses are more beautiful or charming than you.
What all have you done during the week? Well, we started out.
I know you started out your father and mother. That's done to your father and mother at Congressman and Mrs. Baker of the Second Congressional District, aren't they?
That's right. And Congressman Baker and I went to school together at the University of Tennessee.
I believe you got to the...
Yes, I just graduated last week from the University of Tennessee. We're on the quarter system and I graduated at the end of Wednesday quarter.
And tell us about that wonderful and University of Tennessee is a great school.
When your father and I went, they only had about eight or nine hundred students. But I think they have several thousand.
Yes, they do, I know. But tell us what all you've done during this week?
They've had us to lunch and to dinner and they've had big dances. We went to the opening baseball game between the senators and not much of baseball fans.
It was enjoyable.
I think vice president Nixon threw out the first bowl, didn't it?
Yes, sir.
And then the time is seen, the final choice of the queen of the chair of Boston festival will not have been made.
But I'm hoping that you will be the queen that not only the princess of Tennessee but the queen of the chair of Boston festival, definitely.
It might be interesting to say that it got so hard for the judges to decide who would be the queen between all of these beautiful princesses that they now do the selection by turn of the wheel.
And where the number comes, that person is the queen.
And then I'm sure that we just have judges that you would be the queen of the entire festival, Beverly.
Beverly, by the way, what are your plans this summer?
Well, I'm going to be staying in Washington, the spring with mother and daddy, since I've gotten out of the pool.
And I'd like to go to Europe this summer and there's I think there's little controversies to where they can raise enough money.
Oh, he's always putting me over the bare old man.
So you're not sure where the father's going to get up enough money for you to go?
Well, I see Congressman Baker sitting over here and so let's just get him over here and talk about how about it?
How are you going to say, baby, you're going to get going here.
Oh, thank you.
Well, Beverly, you'll be having a great time and I know that the people back in Tennessee are glad to have an opportunity of seeing a lovely Tennessee princess.
The Tennessee State Society has about five or six hundred members here and you can say this, but I, because you're a mother's, but I can say that this Beverly Baker was the justifyable princess.
The justifiable unanimous choice of the Tennessee State Society to represent the volunteer state and the chair of Lawson Festival.
And Tennessee has never had a more lovely chair of Lawson princess than you, Beverly, and we just wish you the best and want to thank you very much for being on our program.
You want to say goodbye to everybody now?
Well, I just want to thank you Senator Keith Alko for having me on your program. It's been a privilege.
That's all for now. Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the past weekend Washington has produced several developments of great interest to our state.
I'm very happy to be able to report that the Atomic Energy Commission has announced that it will go ahead with a $30 million gas-cool reactor to produce electric power from atomic energy.
The AEC announced that this project will be located at Oak Ridge or two primary reasons.
First Oak Ridge offers the operational advantage of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where the AEC's primary research and development efforts in the gas-cool reactor field have been carried on and will continue.
Second Oak Ridge provides an area where the 25,000 kilowatts this reactor will absorb, will produce, can be absorbed and in the TBA system.
Incidentally, this recommendation for a gas-cool reactor was made by the TBA some six or seven years ago, and I'm glad it's now a reality.
This decision of the government to go ahead and develop a gas-cool reactor power plant is most welcome.
It has moved the problem of developing atomic plants for electrical power off-dead centers.
Private enterprise will continue to be assisted by the government in this field, but this first step of the government will get the ball rolling.
It is more significant that our government has made this decision, because the British and the Russians have been far ahead of the United States and the gas-cool reactor field.
Whoever works out the gas-cool reactor first in the right sort of way and in the successful way will decide who will be the first to make atomic power economically competitive.
And Senator Albert Gore has been working effectively and bringing about this important step.
We're all delighted that the AEC decided our Oak Ridge people are to be the ones to handle this new plant.
Turning now from atomic energy to another subject of importance to Tennessee, I'm glad to be able to report that the Cotton Acryg rental bill, S-1455, passed the Senate by a voice vote this week.
This bill is a great importance to the small cotton farmers in the entire southeast area and of equal importance to the small business man, such as the Genre and the Cotton Seed Oil Mill operator.
The bill will permit a cotton farmer to rent all or part of his Cotton Acryg allotment to another producer within certain limitations, so as not to increase the overall national Cotton Acryg allotment.
It will apply to the crop years of 1959, 60 and 61. The agreements run for one year but are renewable and do not affect the allotment of the farmer who rents the AEC Ridge.
I think the arrangement will help a lot of small farmers stay in business who would otherwise be forced to abandon their farms and seek work in the cities.
The foundation of our economy in my mind is built upon the small, family-sized farmer. This is another step to help him continue to make a decent living.
I might mention in closing that hearings will resume this past week on the bill which would take the big automobile manufacturers out of the finance business.
Senator Manroni and I have introduced bills on this subject. The object of these bills is to offer some protection from monopolistic big business to the small finance companies and banks and try to keep some of the money at home.
If the big auto industries take over the financing business entirely, the eventual result would be higher interest rates for every automobile buyer, dealers and hundreds of small banks and finance firms
would eventually be put out of business. Last week on this program I of course, you met Beverly Baker who was our Tennessee cherry blossom princess.
I think she was the most beautiful princess of all but they chose the queen by turn of the wheel. Unfortunately, Miss Baker was not selected. It went to a very lovely girl, Miss Harris who is the daughter of Congressman Harris of Arkansas.
That's about all the time I have for the program on this occasion so thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, one of the most heated debates of this session of Congress has been in progress on the Senate floor for more than a week now.
The subject is the Kennedy Urban Labor Bill and amendments offered to that bill. Almost an entire day it was taken up as debate on the so-called Bill of Rights Amendment.
This was offered by Senator Matheu and of Arkansas whose fine work in exposing corruption and wrongdoing in some labor unions has been most commendable.
When this amendment came to a vote, I joined 44 other senators in voting against it. Among those voting with me against the amendment where senators go or Senator Long and Eleanor of Louisiana, Senator Olen Johnson of South Carolina, Senators Johnson and Yarborough of Texas, and Senators Hill and Sparkman of Alabama.
The vote was a tie of 45 to 45. Vice President Nixon broke the tie by voting for the amendment and it carried.
At first last, glad Senator Matheu and his amendment appears to accomplish just what its title suggests, a bill of rights for our union members.
After I had read carefully the full implications behind the amendment, I decided to vote against it. Section 103 of the amendment I believe was the most dangerous part.
In brief, it would authorize the Attorney General of the United States to bring in injunctive actions against any labor organization or any member or officer thereof in any state.
And this includes our own state of Tennessee, with no protection of jury trial provided for the rights of any person or group accused.
This is the very thing that we insisted upon in the civil rights arguments last year. That a jury trial is essential protection that must be offered in any citizen or group who is accused, whatever the charges.
No one can say to what extent federal intervention into state affairs would be carried under this section of the material amendment.
A study of the Kennedy Irvin bill, S155, I feel certain that the rights of union members are provided for most adequately.
Another aspect of the material amendment which I feel contains dangerous implications is the section making union membership list available to candidates for office and union elections, whether they are bona fide or candidates or not.
This opens each individual union membership list up to a wide variety of pressure and even intimidation.
Communists could use the list for infiltration. Phony candidates could use the list for any illicit pressure they wished.
The Kennedy bill provides avenues for bona fide candidates to present their campaign literature without making the membership list public.
I think this is much fair and safer. The closest of the vote on the material amendment and the heat of the debate on every stage of this labor legislation is a good indication of concern on the part of every senator that we produce fair legislation to labor and to management.
And it indicates concern that we provide the means to curb corruption and wrong, where it exists in the union movement without doing damage to the overwhelming majority of honest and democratically run unions.
And then also ladies and gentlemen this week another matter of importance happened form the viewpoint of the people of Tennessee.
That was the unexpected nomination by President Eisenhower, a former congressman Brooks Hayes to serve the one and one half years left in Dr. Welch's term on the Tennessee Valley Authority.
I've known congressman Hayes for many years as a member of the House of Representatives. I know that he is an honest, sincere, good man and will try to do a good public duty.
I of course do not want the TVA to get mixed up into politics. And I would want to question congressman Hayes about his vote for the so-called Dixon Yates deal.
But in general I have confidence in congressman Hayes and I know if he says that he will try his very best for the TVA that he will do so.
Ladies and gentlemen friends of Tennessee we have an unusual treat in store for us today.
We have the great privilege of having Miss Melinda Barry of stillwater Oklahoma with us and Miss Barry as the maid of cotton for 1959.
That's correct. Welcome Miss Barry.
Thank you.
Miss Barry you were selected at Memphis Tennessee at their annual.
Yes every year in Memphis they have 20 finalists from over the cotton producing states. There's 18 of them that go and I was one of the 20 finalists and selectors is made in December.
Well I just want to say that I've been to some of these great times when the maid of cotton has been selected and you have lots of beauty but the selection is not only on beauty.
It's on personality, on intelligence and on the ability to be a great diplomat and fine representative for cotton.
And I think they did a mighty good job in selecting the maid of cotton this year. Miss Barry where do you go to school?
Well I'm from stillwater Oklahoma and I was attending school at Oklahoma State University there. English history major.
And where all have you been and what have you been doing since you've been selected the maid of cotton?
Well as maid of cotton we carry cotton fashion and goodwill over the entire United States parts of Canada and then around the world.
And the Linda by the way who sponsors the maid of cotton every year?
I'm sponsored by the National Cotton Council by the Cotton Exchanges of Memphis, New Orleans and New York and also...
I'll say that Memphis again that's most important to me.
Memphis.
Of course I will also be in Memphis from the 12th to the 18th.
What is that occasion?
Cotton Carnival.
Oh that's right.
And there's another one my sponsor, Memphis Cotton Carnival.
That's right and that is certainly a great occasion and you'll be there all the time from the 12th to the 18th of May.
And then I am Melinda where are you going to after the cotton Memphis Cotton Council?
We go back to Nashville.
Well that's our good couple of years.
Yes I have been there.
You've probably made Governor Ellington and he'll be too.
I'll be right.
That's right and then we go back into Canada to Toronto and Montreal and then on around the world to countries such as...
All the way around the world.
That's right.
Do you like to know the country?
Yeah I'll tell us where you're going to.
I go to England and Greece and then on to Pakistan, Thailand, India, China, Japan, Australia, the Philippines, and the Hawaiian Islands.
Hawaiian Islands?
Yes.
You mean that New State?
And then back to the United States.
That's right.
Well that certainly is a great attendory.
I believe this is the first time the mate of cotton has gone all the way around the world.
It's one of the most extensive tours and it's quite exciting.
Well I have these various places where you are to represent cotton and cotton's mighty important in Tennessee.
What do you do Melinda?
Well now when I'm in the United States I carry cotton fashion such as dresses that I wear.
And all the dresses that you wear your beautiful dresses are really cotton.
Yes, like you're in Washington we're doing some fashion shows at the various receptions.
And then when I go abroad I also carry cotton fashion there.
And then you have various shows in which you show the beautiful dresses that are made of cotton and you're a spokesman and a great representative for making garment dresses and things out of cotton.
Is that correct?
Well I'm a fashion and goodwill ambassador.
Goodwill ambassador, that's what I meant.
Well Melinda you're a go to Oklahoma State University.
I do.
And you've taken off what are you majoring out there?
Well I'm an English history major.
This is quite supplementary to my history education.
As obvious all the places that I'm going and I've dropped out for one semester to insert this tour around the world at the cotton industry.
And I'm quite honored to be doing it.
Well some little bird told me that you were a semester ahead already so that you'll be graduating.
I'm graduating.
I had accumulated extra credits when I'd gone to summer school just for the fun of going to summer school.
I know all of these young people who are going to be seeing you when you come to Memphis on May 12th to the cotton carnival.
It might be interested in knowing how old you are if you don't mind telling them.
I'm 21.
21 years of age I became the legal age of 21.
Well this is one of the great things for the cotton industry and for Tennessee and all of these sponsors are certainly deserve a lot of credit for sponsoring you.
And we wish you well on your trip.
We thank you are great ambassadors of Goodwill for cotton.
Thank you very much.
Thank you so much for being with us Melinda.
Good luck to you.
Ladies and gentlemen friends of Tennessee.
On Friday of this week I had planned to attend the Strawberry Festival at Humboldt which is one of the big occasions in Tennessee.
I always look forward to going down there if possible but I had to cancel out my plans to go down because this week in Washington has been a very important week before the appropriation committees of the House of Representatives and the United States Senate for a West Tennessee.
The cost during this week we have had quite a number of West Tennessee ins here to testify in connection with the Wolf River Project down in Shelby County.
The Memphis Harbor Project which is also of great importance down there.
And then the drainage project for the O'Bine and Forkidea River which covers almost all of West Tennessee and is a very vital concern.
I am very fortunate to have with me in the studio Mr. King Rogers from Dijsburg who is a prominent businessman and is a member of the Levy and drainage board of in Dijay County who has been here to testify before the appropriations committee.
Mr. Rogers we glad to have you and will you tell us the importance of the so-called West Tennessee drainage project.
Thank you Senator.
It is very important to the entire North West and part of Tennessee to have this drainage.
The highways, particularly the Highway 51 has been in undated on many occasions.
The farmlands have been overflowed particularly when the crops were up and considerable damage has been done throughout the whole area of the O'Bine and Forkidea River.
It has been not only this past year and early this year but it has been over a period of many years.
It has been over a period of many years.
Well I know that back a number of years ago in 1948 when I was a member of the House of Representatives, the importance of this to West Tennessee was recognized.
The West Tennessee drainage project which you have referred to was authorized by Congress, not to register it.
And then what has happened since that time?
We have had some money appropriated and it has been a small amount of work started.
But we have spent it.
We have asked the Senate and the House committees for an appropriation of $300,000.
Well as I remember Mr. Rogers, of course in all of these flood control and drainage projects there must be a local authority to buy the rights of way and to take care of the maintenance to work with the federal government.
But in 1949 a bill was passed to set up a local authority for the West Tennessee drainage project but it was declared unconstitutional.
And all of this time has passed but no overall authority to take care of the matter is not true until the recent.
Until in the last legislature a bill was passed and signed by Governor Ellington setting up a local authority and now we can go forward.
We can go from there.
And you have testified and asked for $300,000 to get the project going in the next year's year.
What is the most immediate thing to be done Mr. Rogers?
Well we want the work on the Falcadilla River now to be done so that we can get the county being situated where it is.
We will drain out the entire part of Northwestern Tennessee.
And we want to straighten that out and provide them with deep unsuitable stuff.
And then after that's done we can go on to the other parts of it and that's certainly a vital rate of importance.
I am very happy that I have an opportunity of being on the appropriations committee and on the subcommittee on public.
We appreciate you here too in the end of hearings.
Great deal of answers.
I think I can predict Mr. Rogers that although there's been some delay in this that we are going to get an appropriation to get it started and the testimony of all of you has certainly been very helpful.
I might also call attention to people interested in this matter that Commissioner Dwyer of Memphis testified in behalf of the Memphis projects and I think they are going to go forward also.
That's all we have time for now. Thank you very much Mr. Rogers. Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen friends of Tennessee.
Local governments are in a bad fix where development of much needed community facilities are concerned.
When cities or communities or counties of Tennessee and all the other states want to borrow money to pay for such things as water and sewer systems to meet our exploding population groups.
They are finding that very frequently they can't afford the high interest rate that they have to pay.
Therefore I have again joined with pleasure in sponsoring a community facilities bill with Senator Bill Fulbright of Arkansas.
This bill was introduced by us within the past few days in the United States Senate.
An identical bill has been before the House for some weeks now.
Last year the Senate passed a community facilities bill and a good one.
But it got caught in the log jam at the end of the Congress and didn't pass in the House of Representatives.
Senator Fulbright and others who are interested in this bill expect to push as hard as we know how to see that we get a bill passed in this session of Congress.
The bill would expand the housing and home finance community facilities loan program to make it possible for small communities in our state and others to secure loans at interest rates that they can afford to pay.
The Tennessee Municipal League which has worked hard for such legislation pointed out in recent hearings on the House bill that an enormous backlog of currently needed public works facilities and improvements exceeding half a billion dollars.
Exist in the urban areas of Tennessee and are the direct obligations of our municipal governments.
A survey conducted by the league shows that the need for sewer and water system developments alone run to about $180 million.
Here's an example. A O'Neill, Tennessee, a splendid community of about 3,000 population is struggling to provide facilities needed to accommodate new industrial expansion and a new and an increased population.
A $1 million improvement in its water and sewer sewage facilities has been recommended by an engineering study to overcome O'Neill's backlog of needs.
O'Neill's officials find that the interest rates that they would have to pay run from 5 to 5 and 3,4%.
And they ask how can this community produce the revenues for an annual debt amortization charge of $55,000 for interest and more than $30,000 for retirement of principal.
The community facilities bill will produce smaller interest rates which our local communities kind of forward to pay.
Under current conditions this would run about 3 and 3,4%. It's based upon about one half more than the federal government has to pay for the money at guests.
Now I think it should be made clear that this is a, these are loans and not grants and in the long run it wouldn't cost the federal government any outright money at all.
It will raise the maximum loan term to 50 years with a provision for a two-year postponement of principal and interest payments where circumstances and some kind of catastrophe warranted.
This is no WPA make-work type of bill. It is instead a refinement and expansion of a program that already exists.
It will help our local communities to help themselves meet the pressing demands for badly needed community facilities and our rapid population growth.
I will work hard for this bill as I did in the last session of Congress. I believe it's vital to the development and to the economy of our state and to the other states that needed.
Incidentally every time I go to Tennessee the people in some community talk about expansions or facilities that they need water works, sewer systems, new sidewalks or municipal buildings.
And this I think will enable many of them to build these facilities which they have needed for a long, long time in which they must have.
I think it would be a great help to many communities in our state of Tennessee.
Thank you and that's all for now until next week. Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee this is Charlie Caldwell Senator, as the ski-farbers administrative assistant.
I have him back from Tennessee now and I'd like to ask him about the latest developments on the TVA self-financing bill.
Well Charlie Caldwell, as you know, the bill was brought out from the Public Works Committee about 10 days ago but then some opposition came about as to the territorial expansion 2.5% of the territory and so it was referred back to the Public Works Committee and now it's been brought out again in its ready-percented action.
The bill, as it now stands, allows the TVA to sell bonds up to the extent of $750 million at any one time.
And it has a provision for a maximum expansion of territory by 2.5% to take care of unusual fringe situations or the increase in the population of a community on the border.
That was what was subjected to them. In the committee of the second time it was provided that not more than 1.4% or 20% of this 2.5% could be used to expand the territory in any one state.
So that that seems to be satisfactory and by the time I report to you next week we hope very much that the TVA self-financing bill will have been considered by the Senate in past and we hope that it's going to be signed by the President.
Senator, I believe you and several colleagues had an opportunity to show Senator Kerr of Oklahoma the TVA system the past week, is that correct?
Yes, we had a wonderful trip down to the TVA to the Valley and I've been seeing all the dams and fertilizer plants and steam plants many times but Senator Kerr of Oklahoma has chairman of the subcommittee that handles the TVA and Public Works Committee has been, of course, our great friend.
And as handled the self-financing bill so that Senator Gore and Senator Sparkman and I along with General Vogel and Mr. Jones of the TVA Board, Mr. Wesson-Harr, the power head of the power development and others, we went down to see the TVA.
We circled around, host the great many of the dams beginning at South Holston.
We would see the reservoir, the lake and the ice being developed for recreation and we would see the dam.
We stopped at Knoxville for a little while, visited with friends there, then went over to Kingston, Steam Plant, then down to Chattanooga where we had lunch with the TVA power board and many public officials' medics.
Then we visited the fertilizer plant and Wilson Dam down at Muscle Shoals and the people in that section had a big chamber of commerce meeting forest.
Governor Ellington joined us at Knoxville and he was very good to have him, he and Senator Kerr, old friends and so a great time has had my old Senator Kerr was very much impressed.
Senator, I understand that you came out on the short end of a discussion about the relative marriage of Black Angus, cattle and white-faced herfers.
Well, when we weren't busy looking at dams or steam plants, the discussion was about the marriage of Black Angus of which Senator Kerr and Governor Ellington, Mr. Senator Gore or Advocates.
I tried to hold up a little bit the other side because my aunt has white-faced herfers but it was three to one so I don't know I guess they won the argument.
Senator, we have just a small amount of both of my fine beef cutters.
We have a few moments more, would you tell us what's going on in the bread hearings with the Antitrust Subcommittee?
I'd like to introduce Rand Dixon, Chief Counsel for that committee.
Yes, we've been hearing about bread and Rand who comes from Nashville is our Chief Counsel of our Monopoly Committee.
And also the head of the Tennessee State Society here in Washington, so you told us about it, Rand.
Well, we've had some very interesting hearings, you know Senator, we are trying to understand why the price of bread in the last ten years has gone up from 12.5 cents to approximately 19.5 for 20 cents while at the same time the farmer is getting less for a bushel of wheat.
Well, what are we finding out about it?
Well, we are finding this out, sir, that the large major bakery chains have a systematic type of pricing where prices will be high we might say in the metropolitan area and low in small areas.
Well, fortunately it's not as high in Tennessee as in some of the larger cities of the North and East and maybe we can discuss this more next time.
That's all for now and thank you very much until next week.
you